Eric J Blincow 
Rochester Hills, MI 48306 
(248) 563-1660
eric@eblincow.com

Objective
  Remote work using Python and/or Django. Technically challenging projects preferred.

Experience & Education

Software Engineer
ITHAKA
03/14 - 01/20
Coding python/django back-end and javascript/ui front-end for JSTOR search service.
Focus on UI, service layer, logging, analytics.
Extensive work with templating, middleware, custom and third party analytics, optimization technologies and service calls/API integration.
Extensive work with javascript. 

Python/Django Developer
VectorForm, Royal Oak, MI
10/13 – 03/14    

Coded django back-end of interactive Ebook reader used in online booksales.
Worked with client during design phase to assess needs and features.
Focus on unit-testing, performance optimization, deployment, maintenance.
Extensive work with databases, SQL, XML, text parsing, and unix, server configuration and deployment.

Web Developer                                           
Michigan Roundtable, Detroit, MI
03/13 – 09/13
Built and configured state-wide network user database using Python and SQL.
Automated data processing, parsing and retrieval using Python scripts. Worked with xml, SQL, javascript, html/css and automated spreadsheet processing.

Web & IT Technical Support (Volunteer)
National Multiple Sclerosis Society                                     
02/13 – 05/13
Helped with web publishing and HTML/CSS/Javascript formatting issues.
Configured CMS content for interactive events and fundraisers.

Neuroscience Research Associate /  PhD (degree not completed)
Gray Lab, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada              
05/09 – 05/12
Helped build and maintain a suite of custom scripts for use in experiments (MATLAB & Python).
Research into the neurobiology of visual processing and virtual reality flight steering in locusts.
Designed and carried out neurophysiology experiments.

Research Assistant / MSc. Neuroscience                                                     
Büschges Lab, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany
08/07 – 08/08
Research into the neurobiology underlying walking in the stick insect. 
Neurophysiological recording and spike train analysis, publication of findings.


Research Assistant / BSc. Molecular Biology & German                          
Koch Laboratories, U of M Dept. of Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI
08/05 – 04/06
Research into the molecular factors underlying arthritis. 


Technologies Used
- Python, 5 years (version 2.6 to 3.3)
- Standard library and various third party libs (botocore, custom)
- Django, 2 years (version 1.4 to 1.7)
- Django templating, middleware, security, databases
- Unit testing in python and javascript
- Javascript, 2 years (jquery and vanilla)
- Javascript frameworks: require, simon, etc.
- SQL databases, MySQL, PostgresSQL, Sqlite
- XML processing and ebook formatting
- Java application maintenance and debugging
- Very extensive linux/unix knowledge (4 years)
- Apache2/gunicorn web server experience (2 years)
- AWS (2 years)


Accomplishments in Brief
-Wrote and maintained several pages/applications for JSTOR search service, serving >1 million
unique visitors per day
-Coded ebook preview creator/viewer system for largest publishing company in the US
-My side projects are on github at https://github.com/eblincow?tab=repositories
-Acting as a middleman between software/hardware engineers and research team, helped develop 3 novel controllers for neurophysiology recordings; maintained these and instructed other researchers in their use.
-Developed and coded on own initiative a series of MATLAB scripts that allowed for rapid processing of a dataset which contained 400 neurons spike train data over 60 hours recording time.
-Analyzed and processed this data set; presented results at Neuroscience Annual Meeting, 2011.
-Published: “Control of reflex reversal in stick insect walking”, Journal of Neurophysiology, 2012.
-Published: “A pair of motion-sensitive neurons in the locust”, Journal of Comparative Physiology, 2010.
-Presenter, Society for Neuroscience Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, 2011.
-Speaker, Neural Systems and Plasticity Research Group Retreat, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 2010.


References 
                       
Benjamin Tatum — Software Engineer, ITHAKA
248.835.4816, bentatum@me.com

Gerard Konars -- Software Engineer, ITHAKA
734.657.7350, gerard@automatyk.com

Zach Norton – Program Manager, VectorForm 
znorton@vectorform.com


